---
layout: exam_info
num: e01
ready: true
desc: "Midterm-1 Exam"
exam_date: 2017-02-02 15:30:00.00-8
---

## Reference material
You are expected to know the material from the following lectures, labs and homeworks:

* Lecture 1 (2017-01-10) to lecture 6 (2017-01-26), including all code implemented in class
* Homework 1 to 6
* Labs 0 to 2

## Midterm Study Guide

* Write the skeleton of a simple C++ program - see the hello world example covered in lecture
* Write code that involves passing parameters to main
* Read and write to standard input, output and error with cin, cout, cerr - you should be able to write code that uses these concepts, identify the difference between cout and cerr, difference between cout, exit and return 
* Simple unix commands (covered in labs): cp, mkdir, ls, pwd, cd
* An understanding of what compilers are, the compilation and execution process of C++ programs: 
	* What is g++? What are the inputs and outputs ?
	* What is the difference between compiling and running a C++ program?
	* How can you ask g++ to use the c++11 libraries when compiling your C++ program
	* What are compile-time errors?
	* What are run-time errors?
	
* The ability to use variables and basic data types in the type of programs covered in class:
	* Identify valid and invalid ways to name variables in C++ - Please refer to book on this
	* Identify invalid use of variables: For example using a variable in an expression or assignment before declaring it
	* Different ways of initializing variable: 
		```
			int x =10; int x(10); cin>>x;
		```
	* Difference between variable declaration and initialization.
	* What is the default value given to uninitialized variables in C++ and why this can be a problem

* The ability to debug and write code that involves flow control structures taught in class and used in labs. Pay attention to syntax, and the ability to use each appropriately to solve problems similar to those provided in the labs
	* If else statements, multiway if-else statements
	* For, while and do-while loops, nested for loops (used in lab02)
	* Identify the occurance of infinite loops

* Data representation:
	* Representing unsigned numbers using positional encoding in different bases: binary, hex, decimal 
	* Internal vs. external representation of data on a computer
	* Conversion between different representations
	* What is signed vs unsigned integer representation
	* Signed representation used on modern computers: two's complement
	* The big idea: bits can represent ANYTHING. With n bits we can represent at most 2^N things. 
		* Apply above idea to represent other data (like characters, colors, and so on) in binary
		* Apply the above idea to determine the range of values that can be represented using a particular encoding scheme
		* Apply the above idea to determine the minimum number of bits required to represent a finite set of data or numbers

	* How does the data type of a variable determine its representation on a computer?

* Identify what basic git commands do, in particular
	* git clone
	* git add
	* git commit
	* git push

* Write, evaluate and simulate the run-time behavior of C++ expressions
	* Operator precedence, associativity (You don't have to learn the precendence table, you should just know how to apply it to evaluate expressions)
	* Assignment statements and assignment operator used within an expression
	* Evaluate compound Boolean expressions as practiced on homeworks
	* What evaluates to true? What evaluates to false?

* File I/O - you should be able to understand and debug code that uses file i/o concepts from lab01
	* Opening a file: open()
	* Reading a line from a file: getline()
	* Reading until the end of file is reached
	* Detecting failures
	* Printing error messages to standard error with cerr
	* When do we use exit() and why?


* Exhibit an understanding of why we are using github in this class.
* Debugging: Given a C++ program, identify and correct:
	* Compile-time and run-time errors
	* Incorrect program behavior


