---
layout: exam_info
num: e02
ready: false
desc: "Midterm-2 Exam"
exam_date: 2017-03-02 15:30:00.00-8
---

## Instructions for the exam (please note that instructions for miderm 2 are different from midterm 1)

* You may NOT bring any notes with you. Instead we ask that you collaborate with your classmates and the tutors before the class to develop a commmon set of notes covering all of the midterm topics via an online collaborative document
* Creating the collaborative notes document: Please add information that you would have liked to have on the exam to this [collaborative document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ctpQAlAiTz5L8m8m9ibGlQG9Jcir4xmIUFiknvRR0wk/edit?usp=sharing). A subset of the information will be made available to you on the exam as exam notes.
* I will select information from the collaborative document as notes that will be given out in the exam. These notes will NOT include solutions to programming assignments from labs or HWs. I will provide everyone with the same set of notes on the exam. You will also have access to the full set of notes from the collaborative document and the notes you expect to see on the exam, prior to the exam.  
* No calculators or phones are allowed in the exam 
* You may not bring ANY notes or books 
* There are no makeups for this exam 
* You must write your name on every single sheet of paper including your notes
* We will provide you with scratch paper
* We will provide you the table of operator precedence
* The format of the exam will be similar to midterm 1


## Reference material
You are expected to know the material from the following lectures, labs and homeworks. Please be sure to review the code from lecture which can be found in the lecture notes (different from lecture slides)

* [Lecture 1](https://ucsb-cs16-wi17.github.io/lectures/lect01/) (2017-01-10) to [lecture 14](https://ucsb-cs16-wi17.github.io/lectures/lect14/) (2017-02-28), with the exception of file IO, operator precedence (lectures 4 and 5), makefiles and tdd. You will be tested on these topics on the final exam. The main emphasis will be on topics covered after midterm 1 ([lecture 8](https://ucsb-cs16-wi17.github.io/lectures/lect08/) to [lecture 14](https://ucsb-cs16-wi17.github.io/lectures/lect14/)), with the exception of makefiles and tdd. In other words, you will be primarily tested on pointers, references, arrays, structs, pointers to basic or struct type, and linked lists. A full list is provided later in this document.
* Homeworks 1 to 11, with emphasis on hw 7 to 11
* Labs 3 to 6 


## Midterm Study Guide

* Arrays: [hw 08](/hwk/h08/),  [lab 04](/lab/lab04/)
    * declaration [lec 08](/lectures/lect08/)
    * initialization [lec 08](/lectures/lect08/)
    * representation in memory [lec 08](/lectures/lect08/)
    * accessng elements via index-based and range-based for loops [lec 08](/lectures/lect08/) 
    * passing arrays to functions [lec 09](/lectures/lect09/), [lec11](/lectures/lect11/)

* Pointers: [hw 10](/hwk/h10/),  [lab 05](/lab/lab05/) [lec 09](/lectures/lect09/)
    * purpose
    * declaration, size of a pointer
    * initialization to null value, initialization using '&' operator
    * pointer diagrams showing relationship between pointer and pointee
    * derefencing pointers using the '*' operator
    * assignment involving pointers: making two pointers point to the same object
    * changing where a pointer points to
    * **tracing code involving pointers and showing program dynamics via pointer diagrams** 

* References: [hw 08](/hwk/h08/), [lab 05](/lab/lab05/)
    * Definition
Assignment
Call by reference
Differences between pointers and references 


## Practice problems
In addition to all the homeworks, labs and lectures, you may use the problems in the following document to practice:


## Past exams
You may also refer to all the past exams. Please note that some questions on these exams may refer to labs that you have not completed so far. You will only be asked questions related to the labs you have completed. The past exams should however provide some information on the expected difficulty and approximate format of the exam. Please note that there may be differences in content as well.

* [Spring'10](http://www.cs.ucsb.edu/~pconrad/cs16/10S/exams/)
* [Winter'10](http://www.cs.ucsb.edu/~pconrad/cs16/10W/exams/)
* [Fall'09](http://www.cs.ucsb.edu/~pconrad/cs16/09F/exams)

 ## Post exam information 

The exam paper and solution will be posted after the midterm.
