---
num: "h00"
desc: "Linear Search"
ready: false
assigned: 2017-04-13 09:30:00.00-7:00
due: 2017-04-18 09:30:00.00-7:00
---

<div style="font-size:90%; padding-top:0px; margin-top:0px;">

<li style="padding-top:0px; margin-top:0px; margin-bottom:0px; padding-bottom:0px;">

(10 pts) Before attending your first discussion section (lab), please
ensure that you can access your CSIL / College of Engineering Account.
Either visit CSIL (the lab on first floor ocean side of Harold Frank
Hall), and try to login, or use an ssh client to see if you can access
csil.cs.ucsb.edu.

If you need help creating or accessing your CoE/CSIL account, visit
<https://accounts.engr.ucsb.edu>

Then, write your College of Engineering account username below. DO NOT
WRITE YOUR PASSWORD. DO NOT EVER WRITE YOUR PASSWORD!!


</li>

</ol>
<b>Course Textbooks</b>

-   <b>PS9</b>: <i>Problem Solving with C++, 9th Edition </i> by Walter
    Savitch (used in CS16, F14, W15 and S15). Purple/Blue cover.
-   <b>DS4</b>: <i>Data Structures and Other Objects Using C++, 4th
    edition </i> by Michael Main and Walter Savitch (used in CS24, W15,
    S15). Brown cover

Both books are required for this course. This homework will only refer
to DS4 (the brown book), but future homework assignments may draw on
either or both of the two books.

<strong>Reading:</strong> In DS4 read pages 584-594; STOP at p. 594 (pp
594-598 will be covered on H02).

Also, read the "C++ Feature" box about `size_t` on p. 100. You only need
to read the part in the sans-serif font beside the "C++ Feature" logo,
but if you read a few extra lines of the main text, you'll see better
how `size_t` is used. Since `size_t` is used in Section 12.1, it's
helpful to review this material from Chapter 3 in case you glossed over
it during CS24.

Then, answer the questions on the back of this homework.

</div>

<div style="font-size:90%">
Questions about DS4, pages 584-586.

3.  (10 pts) Serial search is also called "linearSearch". Suppose you
    are writing a standalone C++ function called <b>linearSearch</b>
    that searches through an unsorted C++ builtin array array of int
    values using this technique. Write the function prototype for this
    function—ONLY the function protototype. Be sure to include the name
    and type all the input parameters you would need, and a suitable
    type for the return value. Assume the function returns the index of
    the value if found, and -1 if the value is not found. Choose
    parameter names that make sense and represent good programming style
    (i.e. clearly document the purpose of the parameters that are being
    passed in.)

4.  (10 pts) For this question, please review pp 584-586 and read both
    sides of the handout <F15:Homework:H00:Handout>. Then answer this
    question about the expected number of array accesses for linear
    search.

5.  In CMPSC 24, you should have learned about big-Oh analysis, i.e.
    asymptotic worst-case run-time analysis.

   1.  (5 pts) What is the big-O analysis of a find(key) operation on a
        sorted array of <em>n</em> keys, implemented using <em>binary
        search</em>?
        Circle your answer.

        Note that log, in the context of big-O, typically means log
        based 2, but since all logs are related by a constant factor,
        i.e. for any value of <em>b</em>, there is a constant <em>C</em>
        such that <span style="white-space:nowrap">log~2~(<em>x</em>) =
        <em>C</em>·log~<em>b</em>~(x)</span>.

        <div style="font-weight:bold; font-size:110%; margin:1em;">
          ------ ---------- ------ ------------ --------- --------------- ---------
          O(1)   O(log n)   O(n)   O(n log n)   O(n^2^)   O(n^2^ log n)   O(n^3^)
          ------ ---------- ------ ------------ --------- --------------- ---------

        </div>
    2.  (5 pts) Explain why this is the running time for binary search.
        A "formal proof" is not required—just a <em>brief</em> intuitive
        explanation that shows you understand why this is the running
        time.

</div>


