---
num: "h01"
desc: "Chapter 1, sections 1.1, 1.3"
ready: false
assigned: 2017-01-10 15:30:00.00-8:00
due: 2017-01-12 15:30:00.00-8:00
---
Reading: Read Chapter 1, pages 2-7 and 18-27.   If you don't have a copy of the textbook yet, there is one on reserve at the library under "COMP000-STAFF - Permanent Reserve".

1. (4 pts) Before you come to your first discussion section (lab), PLEASE visit this website and create your College of Engineering account (unless you already have one).  Then write your College of Engineering username below. (DO NOT WRITE YOUR PASSWORD!!!!!  NEVER WRITE DOWN YOUR PASSWORD!!! Just your username!)
Website: <https://accounts.engr.ucsb.edu/create>
Write your username here:
	<div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>


2. (1 pt) What is the size of the smallest data item in main memory that has a memory address?
	<div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>


3.	(5 pts) The book talks about the five important hardware components of a computer  i) input devices ii) output devices iii) processor iv) main memory and v) secondary memory. It also talks about two important pieces of software: i)compilers and operating systems. Which of the above performs each of the following tasks? Write 'none' if none of options apply. 
	<div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>
A. Converts a program from one high-level language to another high-level language. 	  <div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>
B. Converts a program from high-level language to machine language
	<div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>
C. Executes a program stored in main memory.
	<div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>
D. Allocates the computer's resources to the different tasks that the computer must accomplish  
	<div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>
E. Stores a program while it is being executed 
	<div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>

<div class="pagebreak"></div>

4. (2 pts) Not including any comments that may appear, what are the first two lines that typically begin a C++ program that is going to either output on the screen, and/or read input from the keyboard?
	<div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>	

As you discovered when you read the textbook, for the most basic kind of input and output, C++ uses two words, and two symbols, along with variables and quoted strings. Unlike in some other languages (e.g. Python), quoted strings must always use double quote marks `"like this"`, never single quotes `'like this'`.  (Single quotes are used for another purpose in C++.)  

	<div style="margin-bottom:1em"></div>

Inside a quoted string, `\n` means "newline". Quoted strings can only be output, while the value of a variable can be either output to the screen, or read in from the keyboard.  Variable names are not put inside quotation marks. Also remember that every line of C++ that does input or output <strong>must end in a semicolon</strong>. 

	<div style="margin-bottom:1em"></div>


5. (4 pts) Assuming the variable `int age;` has already been declared and initialized with a value, write a C++ statement that will print out `My age is: ` followed by the value of the variable `age`, followed by a newline?. 
(For full credit, be sure to end your line with a semicolon. That's true of all the problems in this section, but this is the only time I'll remind you.)
	<div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>


6.  (4 pts) The textbook describes C++11 on p.27.  Briefly, what is C++11? (A one sentence answer is good enough.  Note that if your textbook doesn't describe C++11 on p. 27, then you may have the wrong edition.  You need the ninth edition.)
  <div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>




