{{DONE}}

{{F15HwkHdr}}
   
{{FloatRightStart|40%}}
{{ScanHintsBox}}
{{FloatRightEnd}}

<strong>Reading:</strong> In <i>Problem Solving with C++, 9th edition </i> (PS9) read Section 10.2. After reading, answer the following questions.
 
<ol start="1">

{{F15EnterNameLI}}

<li>According to Savitch in PS9, the scope resolution operator <code>::</code> and the dot operator <code>.</code> have a similar purpose, but there is a major difference between them.
<ol>
<li>(3 pts) What do they have in common?{{Space|4em}}</li>
<li>(3 pts) What is the difference between them?  {{Space|4em}}</li>
</ol>
</li>

<li>In a class for an object representing a UCSB student: 
<ol>
  <li> (3 pts) Would <code>setPerm</code> be an accessor or a mutator function? 
{{CircleOneTwoOptions|accessor|mutator}}
</li>
  <li> (3 pts) Would <code>getName</code> be an accessor or a mutator function?
{{CircleOneTwoOptions|accessor|mutator}}
</li>
</ol>
</li>
</ol>

{{HwkPageBreak|2}}

<ol start="4">
<li>(4 pts) What does the term <em>encapsulation</em> refer to? {{Space|2em}}</li>

<li>(4 pts) According to Savitch in PS9, it is normal practice to make member functions private in what circumstance? {{Space|2em}}</li>

<li><p>On p. 579 and then again on p. 586 Savitch drives home a point about the syntax of invoking a constructor&mdash;what you SHOULD do when invoking a no-arg constructor, and what you should NOT do.     Though he doesn't mention it, this is a "trap" that many C++ learners fall into if they learned Java first, because this is a place where C++ and Java syntax differ significantly.</p>

Suppose you have a no-arg constructor for a class <code>Student</code>.   
<ol>
<li>(5 pts) What is the correct syntax to declare a local variable inside a function or method called <code>s</code> that is of type <code>Student</code>, and is created with the no-arg constructor? {{Space|2em}}</li>
<li>(5 pts) What is the "wrong" syntax for doing that same thing that Savitch specifically warns <em>against</em> doing?  {{Space|2em}}</li>
<li>(5 pts) In one of the passages where this is explained, Savitch indicates WHY this other syntax is wrong if your intention is to make <code>s</code> an instance of class <code>Student</code>.  This syntax actually has a completely different meaning in C++.   What does this alternate syntax mean&mdash;that is, what would <code>s</code> be declared to be under this alternate syntax?  {{Space|2em}}</li>
</ol>
</li>

<li>
{{FloatRightStart|40%}}
<pre>
private:
   int perm;
   std::string name;
</pre>
{{FloatRightEnd}}
<p>(5 pts) Suppose you have a class <code>Student</code> with private data members as shown in the box at right.  You could write a constructor like this:</p>
<pre>
Student::Student(int thePerm, std::string theName) {
   perm = thePerm;
   name = theName;
}
</pre>


However, there is an alternate way to initialize data members in the so called "constructor initialization section" described in Section 9.2 of PS9.   Rewrite this constructor so that the body is an empty set of braces, and the code is moved to the so-called "constructor initialization section".  (Note that I am <em>not</em> referring to the C++11 member initializers described on pp 587-588; this is a feature that has been in C++ for many years and is described somewhere before p. 587.)

{{Space|4em}}

</li>


</ol>
{{HwkPageBreak|end}}

