---
num: "h04"
desc: "Sorting"
ready: false
assigned: 2017-05-4 09:30:00.00-7:00
due: 2017-05-9 09:30:00.00-7:00
reading: "DS 13.2-3"
---
 
 <div style='display:none'>
https://ucsb-cs32-s17.github.io/hwk/h03/
</div>

<b>Reading: {{page.desc}},  {{page.reading}}</b>
 
<ol start="1">

<li style='margin-bottom:6em'>(10 pts) Fill in the information in the header. The following are required to get the 10 "participation" points.
    <ul>
    <li>Filling in your name and umail address.<br /></li>
    <li>WRITING (not circling!) either 11, 12, 1, or 2, to indicate your discussion section (lab) meeeting time.<br /></li>
    <li>Writing your first and last initial in large capital letters.<br /></li>
    </ul>
    <p>Also: For paper submission PLEASE submit on ONE SHEET OF PAPER, double-sided if at all possible. If you must submit  on two printed sheets write name on BOTH sheets and no staples, paperclips, or folded corners.<br />
    For gradescope self-submission: PLEASE get the pages in the correct order. First page of your PDF file is p1, the next is p2.</p>
 </li> 

 <li>What is the big-O worst-case running time for for sorting an array of n elements, using these algorithms:
   <ol>
     <li>(2 pts) Mergesorg<br /><br />
     O(1)  O(log n)  O(n)  O(n log n)  O(n<sup>2</sup>)  O(n<sup>2</sup> log n)  O(n<sup>3</sup>
     </li>
 
     <li>(2 pts) Quicksort<br /><br />
     O(1)  O(log n)  O(n)  O(n log n)  O(n<sup>2</sup>)  O(n<sup>2</sup> log n)  O(n<sup>3</sup>
     </li>

     <li>(2 pts) Heapsort<br /><br />
     O(1)  O(log n)  O(n)  O(n log n)  O(n<sup>2</sup>)  O(n<sup>2</sup> log n)  O(n<sup>3</sup>
     </li>
  </li>
  
  
<div class="pagebreak"></div>


  <li>The ADT known as a "dictionary" provides a way to look up with keys to find values. We define these operations as: 
  <ul>
    <li >lookup(key) which returns either a value, or a "not-found" indicator.</li>
    <li >remove(key) which removes the item with that key (if it exists).</li>
    <li >insert(key,value) which adds the new key-value pair, or replaces the value if it already exists.</li>
  </ul>
  We <i>could</i> implement a dictionary with an array of (key,value) pairs, sorted by key. We could use binary search for lookup.
  We'd have to figure out a way to put new values into the sorted list, and remove values. Or we could use hashing.
  <ol>
    <li style='margin-bottom:4em;'>(2 pts) If we use binary search on a sorted array, what is the worst case time for lookup(key) in terms of big-O.
    (No explanation needed, just state the answer.)</li>

    <li style='margin-bottom:6em;'>(8 pts) If we use binary search on a sorted array, what is the worst case time for remove(key)? This time,
    <b>briefly</b> explain your answer.</li>

    <li style='margin-bottom:6em;'>(8 pts) If we use binary search on a sorted array, what is the worst case time for insert(key,value)? This time,
    <b>briefly</b> explain your answer.</li>

    <li style='margin-bottom:4em;'>(4 pts) If we use hash tables instead, what is the worst-case big-O time for lookup(key)? (Just state it.)</li>

    <li style='margin-bottom:4em;'>(3 pts) Is the worst case for lookup(key) for hash tables better or worse than for the binary search?</li>

    <li style='margin-bottom:4em;'>(4 pts) If we use hash tables instead, what is the average (expected) case big-O time for lookup(key). (Just state it.)</li>

    <li style='margin-bottom:4em;'>(3 pts) Is the average (expected) case for lookup(key) for hash tables better or worse than the binary search approach?</li>

  </ol>
  </li>


  

</ol>


