---
num: "h05"
desc: "Chapter 3, sections 3.1 - 3.4 "
ready: false
assigned: 2017-01-24 15:30:00.00-8:00
due: 2017-01-26 15:30:00.00-8:00
---
{% include no_staples_box.html %}
Complete the reading of Chapter 3.1 - 3.3 and additionally read section 3.4 (If you do not have a copy of the textbook yet, there is one on reserve at the library under "COMP000-STAFF - Permanent Reserve").

<b>PLEASE MARK YOUR HOMEWORK CLEARLY, REGARDLESS OF IF YOU WRITE IT OUT IN INK OR PENCIL!</b>

<ol markdown="1">
1.	(2 pts) What is a runtime error in C++?
  <div style="margin-bottom:3em"></div>

2.	(6 pts) Use precedence rules to re-write the following expressions:
  <div style="margin-bottom:1em"></div>
	x / 4 - 3 == 1 && 6 * x + y > 0
  <div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>
	a / b * b < 0.5 || --flag >= 0
  <div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>
	z * m + n / v >= 5 && b + c - d != 0 || f < g
  <div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>

3.	(4 pts) What is the output of the following statements?
  <div markdown="1">
```
int p = 5;
while (--p > 0)
     cout << p << " ";
```
  </div>
  <div style="margin-bottom:5em"></div>

4.	(4 pts) What is the output of the following statements?
  <div markdown="1">
```
int s = 1;
do
     cout << s << " ";
while (s++ <= 5);
```
  </div>
  <div style="margin-bottom:5em"></div>
  <div class="pagebreak"></div>

5.	(4 pts) Same question as above, but the last statement now reads:

  <div markdown="1">
```
while (++s <= 5);
```
  </div>
  <div style="margin-bottom:5em"></div>

6.	(10 pts) Write a block of statements (like a function, but you don't have to write it like a function) that take three arguments of type int and returns true if the arguments are in ascending order; otherwise, it returns false. You can use any type of C++ statement types that we've gone over in class so far to accomplish this goal.
	<div style="margin-bottom:30em"></div>

7.	(10 pts) Using a switch statement, re-write the program from the previous homework 4, question 6. As a reminder, your program first asks for the user's score. Based on the user's score, the program then reports the grade back to the user following the rubric in the previous homework.
	<div style="margin-bottom:1em"></div>
	Employ the same methods with this exercise as you did the homework 4, question 6 one: plan it, write it, compile and test it, and then finally write it in the space provided. (just like what you did for homework 4).
	<div style="margin-bottom:0em"></div>
	<b>DO NOT WRITE CODE THAT YOU HAVEN'T COMPILED AND TESTED</b>
  Note: Although switch statements were not explicitly covered in class, we would like you to self-learn this concept based on the reading, and ask the instructor/TAs if you have any questions.
	
</ol>
