---
num: "h07"
desc: "Chapter 4, sections 4.3 - 4.5, Chapter 9 section 9.1"
ready: false
assigned: 2017-01-31 15:30:00.00-8:00
due: 2017-02-07 15:30:00.00-8:00
---
{% include no_staples_box.html %}
Read Chapter 4, sections 4.3 - 4.5 and Chapter 9, section 9.1 (pages 508-515)(If you do not have a copy of the textbook yet, there is one on reserve at the library under "COMP000-STAFF - Permanent Reserve").

<b>PLEASE MARK YOUR HOMEWORK CLEARLY, REGARDLESS OF IF YOU WRITE IT OUT IN INK OR PENCIL!<br/>
FOR BEST RESULTS, PRINT THIS PAGE AS A PDF, THEN PRINT THE PDF</b>

1.(5 pts) Which of these uses of type casting will NOT ensure that f is 1.5? Answer should be (ex1), (ex2), (ex3), or (ex4) (or a combination of those).

<div markdown="1">
```cpp
int a(1), b(2), c(2), d(2), e(2);
double f;

f = (a + b)*c / static_cast<double>(d + e);	// (ex1)
f = static_cast<double>(a + b)*c / (d + e);	// (ex2)
f = (a + b)*static_cast<double>(c) / (d + e);	// (ex3)
f = static_cast<double>((a + b)*(c) / (d + e));	// (ex4)
```
</div>
  
  <div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>

2.(3 pts) We talked about three concepts that are very important to keep straight, and not confuse: (a) function declaration, (b) function definition, and (c) function call. Here is a short C++ program, with line numbers. Please indicate after the program which line number (or range of line numbers, e.g. 3-5 or 7-14) contains the function prototype, function definition, and function call for the isDivisibleBy function.
  <div style="margin-bottom:1em"></div>
  
<div markdown="1">
```cpp
1  #include <iostream>
2  using namespace std;
3
4  bool isDivisibleBy(int a, int b);
5
6  int main() {
7     cout << "result for (15,5) is " << isDivisibleBy(5,15) << endl;
8     cout << "result for (15,5) is " << isDivisibleBy(5,15) << endl;
9     return 0;
10  }
11
12  bool isDivisibleBy(int a, int b) {
13    return ( a % b == 0 );
14  }
```
</div>
<div style="margin-bottom:1em"></div>
3. (4pts) Write the 8-bit 2's complement representation of each of the following decimal numbers: 
<div style="margin-bottom:1em"></div>
   (a) -25 
   <div style="margin-bottom:1em"></div>
   (b) -100 
   <div style="margin-bottom:1em"></div>
   (c) 64
  <div style="margin-bottom:1em"></div>
4. (4pts) Write a C++ statement to perform each of the following tasks
  <div style="margin-bottom:1em"></div>
  (a) Declare a variable p to be a pointer to an integer
   <div style="margin-bottom:1em"></div>
  (b) Declare a variable p to be a pointer to a character
   <div style="margin-bottom:1em"></div>
  (c) Declare a variable p to be a pointer to a pointer to a character
  <div class="pagebreak"></div>


5.(12 pts) First, re-read the nested loop section on pages 160-161, and read the text and code on pages 208-211. Next, go to this URL and download the program called <b>stars.cpp</b> in this github repo: [https://github.com/ucsb-cs16-wi17/hw7-code](https://github.com/ucsb-cs16-wi17/hw7-code)
  <div style="margin-bottom:1em"></div>

  Read the program and try to understand what it does. Compile and run it as well to see what it does: in the program, the function, <b>boxOfStars</b>, returns a string that, when printed, yields a box of stars of width w and height h. The function, <b>lineOfStars</b>, is a function that returns a string that when printed, yields a string containing a sequence of stars of length len, without a new line character.
  <div style="margin-bottom:1em"></div>
  
  Following the example from the textbook write a new definition of the function boxOfStars that does NOT contain an explicitly nested loop. Instead, it should have a call to the function lineOfStars to accomplish the same goal as the original program.
  <div style="margin-bottom:1em"></div>
  
  You can test what you’ve done by compiling and running your changed code. Write the body of your program in the space provided below.
  <div style="margin-bottom:10em"></div>
  
6.(6 pts) Consider the ORIGINAL version of boxOfStars that has a nested loop above. Suppose that we made a mistake in the inner loop variable in the <b>boxOfStars</b> function, and instead of for `(int j=0; j<width; j++)` we wrote for `(int j=0; j<width; i++)` (note the mistake—incrementing i as in Ivan in this loop header instead of j as in Jill.) What would happen, and why?
  <div style="margin-bottom:5em"></div>

7.(6 pts) Consider the example of the NEW boxOfStars program as re-written by you to use the <b>lineOfStars</b> function (i.e. in the CHANGED program that you submitted for question #5). Suppose that we changed the loop variable in the <b>lineOfStars</b> function from j (as in "Jill") to i (as in "Ivan"). Would there be any problem with that? If so, what? If not, explain why not, especially in light of what we’ve discussed about the scope of variables.
 <div style="margin-bottom:5em"></div>

 8. (5 pts) Uncomment the code between lines 40 and 45. Then compile and run the program. What do you think happens when the function swap() is called in the code? Draw pointer diagrams to show how the function swap achieves that outcome.
 <div style="margin-bottom:5em"></div>

