---
num: "h08"
desc: "Memory"
ready: false
assigned: 2017-06-01 09:30:00.00-7:00
due: 2017-06-06 09:30:00.00-7:00
reading: "Reader pp 167-192"
---
 
 <div style='display:none'>
https://ucsb-cs32-s17.github.io/hwk/h08/
</div>

<b>Reading: {{page.desc}},  {{page.reading}}</b>
 
<ol start="1">

<li>(10 pts) Fill in the information in the header. The following are required to get the 10 "participation" points.
    <ul>
    <li>Filling in your name and umail address.<br /></li>
    <li>WRITING (not circling!) either 11, 12, 1, or 2, to indicate your discussion section (lab) meeeting time.<br /></li>
    </ul>
    <p>Also: For paper submission PLEASE submit on ONE SHEET OF PAPER, double-sided if at all possible. If you must submit  on two printed sheets write name on BOTH sheets and no staples, paperclips, or folded corners.<br />
    </p>
 </li> 


 <li>Object files (.o files) are organized in standard way to allow the linker to organize multiple source files into a single executable. The reading discusses the five major sections of an object file. Below, list the order of the five major sections in an object file. Accompany each with a one-sentence description and example of what belongs there. 
  <ul>
    <li style='margin-bottom:2em;'>(3 pts)</li>
    
    <li style='margin-bottom:2em;'>(3 pts)</li>
    
    <li style='margin-bottom:2em;'>(3 pts)</li>
    
    <li style='margin-bottom:2em;'>(3 pts)</li>
    
    <li style='margin-bottom:2em;'>(3 pts)</li>
  </ul>
  </li>

 <div class="pagebreak"></div>

 <li>Answer each statement by stating the type of error that will result from these scenarios. 
  <ol type='a'>
    <li style='margin-bottom:2em;'>(2 pts) Infinite recursive calls to a function:</li>
    
    <li style='margin-bottom:4em;'>(2 pts) Excessive allocations of memory using the <tt>new</tt> operator at runtime:</li>
  </ol>
  </li>


<li style='margin-bottom:8em;'>(5 pts) Consider the function below, written by someone named B.C. Dull. B.C. Dull thinks this is a clever way to make something like a constructor for a Student object. B.C. tests the function on a few examples, and says: "looks ok to me". But B.C. has sown the seeds of destruction here. What is B.C.'s error? Explain briefly, but with just enough detail that the grader will have no doubt that you understand the situation fully.<br />
  
<pre>
Student* makeStudent(std::string name, int perm) {
  Student s(name, perm);
  return &s;
}
</pre>
  </li>
  
  <li style='margin-bottom:7em;'>(5 pts) Why does the C function malloc return a <tt>void*</tt>?</li>
  
  <li style='margin-bottom:7em;'>(5 pts) Why don't we use C allocation routines in C++? In other words, what benefits do <tt>new, new[], delete, delete[]</tt> offer that <tt>malloc(), realloc(), calloc(), free()</tt> don't? 
  </li>

 <li>Franek describes various situations in which an attempt to do dynamic memory allocation in C++ can fail. Describe two of these. 
  <ul>
    <li style='margin-bottom:4em;'>(3 pts)</li>
    
    <li style='margin-bottom:3em;'>(3 pts)</li>
    
  </ul>
  </li>


</ol>
