---
num: "h11"
desc: "Homework 11"
ready: true
assigned: 2016-11-01 14:00:00.00-7:00
due: 2016-11-03 14:00:00.00-7:00
---
{% include no_staples_box.html %}
Read Chapter 6.1 thru 6.3, in addition to the extra material on string manipulation from the class lecture (#11). If you do not have a copy of the textbook yet, there is one on reserve at the library under "COMP000-STAFF - Permanent Reserve". 

<b>PLEASE MARK YOUR HOMEWORK CLEARLY, REGARDLESS OF IF YOU WRITE IT OUT IN INK OR PENCIL! FOR BEST RESULTS, SAVE THIS PAGE AS A PDF, THEN PRINT THE PDF.</b>

1.(2 pts) If I wanted my double type variables to be displayed in scientific notation, with a precision of 3 decimal places, and always have a plus (+) sign in front of positive numbers, what code should I include in my program before issuing a cout statement?
<div style="margin-bottom:5em"></div>

2.(4 pts) Show the output produced when the following line is executed (assume library <iomanip> is included in the program:

`cout << "*" << setw(3) << 12345 << "*" << endl;`

<div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>

3.(4 pts) When testing for end of file, we talked about two methods. What are they and when is each used?
<div style="margin-bottom:6em"></div>

4.(10 pts) I have a text file called "t.txt" that contains two entries: "UC Santa Barbara" on one line, and "Computer Science" on the other line. Show the output produced when the following code (entire program not shown) is executed. You are encouraged to also try to compile this in a program to verify your results.

<div markdown="1">
```cpp
  ifstream tin;
  tin.open("t.txt");
  char c = ' ';
  tin.get(c);
  while (!tin.eof()) {
    if ( (c != 'e') && (c != 'a') ) 
        cout << c;
  tin.get(c); }  // end while
```
</div>
<div class="pagebreak"></div>

5.(10 pts) Using the examples shown in class (non_numbers_char.cpp and non_numbers_string.cpp), extend BOTH programs to check not just for numbers, but for all alphanumeric characters (that is, numbers and letters). 

Attach your modified programs in a separate sheet to this homework assignment. Please optimize your printout to **not exceed 1 page for this answer**.
<div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>

6.(10 pts) Show the output produced when the following code (entire program not shown) is executed. You are encouraged to also try to compile this in a program to verify your results.

<div markdown="1">
```cpp
    string name = "Jeffery Tambor";

    cout << "NAME = " + name << endl;
    cout << name.length() << endl;

    name.erase(8, 6);
    cout << name << endl;
    name.append("Dean WD Morgan");
    cout << name << endl;

    name.insert(22, "@TWD");
    cout << name << endl;
    name.replace(23, 3, "The WD");
    cout << name << endl;

    cout << name.find("WD") << endl;
    cout << name.rfind("WD") << endl;
    cout << name.rfind("fery") << endl;

    for (int i = name.length(); i > 20; i--)
        cout << name[i-1];
    cout << endl;
```
</div>
