---
num: "h16"
desc: "Homework 16"
ready: true
assigned: 2016-11-29 14:00:00.00-8:00
due: 2016-12-01 14:00:00.00-8:00
---
{% include no_staples_box.html %}
Reading: Read Chapter 10.1 and 10.2. If you do not have a copy of the textbook yet, there is one on reserve at the library under "COMP000-STAFF - Permanent Reserve".

<b>PLEASE MARK YOUR HOMEWORK CLEARLY, REGARDLESS OF IF YOU WRITE IT OUT IN INK OR PENCIL! FOR BEST RESULTS, SAVE THIS PAGE AS A PDF, THEN PRINT THE PDF.</b>

1.(8 pts) Write a definition for a structure type for records consisting of a person’s wage rate, accrued vacation (in whole days), and status (hourly or salaried - represent the status as one of the two character values ‘H’ and ‘S’).  Call the type EmployeeRecord.
<div style="margin-bottom:14em"></div>

2.(3 pts) Describe the difference between a class and a structure?
<div style="margin-bottom:7em"></div>

3.(3 pts) Explain why member variables are usually private?
<div style="margin-bottom:7em"></div>

4.(3 pts) Describe the purpose of a constructor?

<div class="pagebreak"></div>

5.**For the next 3 questions (a-c), refer to Display 10.6 in the text book.**

a.(3 pts) Why are there 3 different constructors in the BankAccount class?
<div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>

b.(3pts)  What is line 38 in the program doing?
<div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>

c.(3 pts) Can the main program use the BankAccount member function called fraction()? Explain why or why not?
<div style="margin-bottom:4em"></div>

6.(14 pts) Write a program that has a definition for a structure type called UndergradStudents. This structure should contain student ID numbers, first and last names, major, and GPA scores for each undergraduate year. 
The program should *declare* and then *initialize* an array of 3 objects of this class (hint: you can do this with the same approach you define/initialize an array of any other type). You **must initialize the values in the program, not by user input**.  The initial values are shown in the table below. 
The program should then print out some of the values of the array of objects as shown in the sample below, along with each student AVERAGE GPA score (which you should calculate, with a precision of 2 decimal places). You **must use a loop to print the output**.

If you cannot write out the program in the space provided below, then print out the program on a separate sheet of paper and attach that to this homework. Please do not use more than 1 page, one sided.

<div markdown="1">
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---
|ID | First name| Last Name| Major | GPA Yr1|  GPA Yr2| GPA Yr3| GPA Yr4
|1 | Joe | Shmoe | EE | 3.8 | 3.3 | 3.4 | 3.9
|2 | Macy | Chen | CS | 3.9 | 3.9 | 4.0 | 4.0
|3 | Patrick | Sadface | ME | 3.8 | 3.0 | 2.4 | 1.9

OUTPUT:

```
These are the student records:
ID# 1, Shmoe, Joe, Major: EE, Average GPA: 3.60
ID# 2, Chen, Macy, Major: CS, Average GPA: 3.95
ID# 3, Sadface, Patrick, Major: ME, Average GPA: 2.77
```
</div>
